JESSICA HUD — native Android / Pixel external displays / Samsung DeX

This native Java app does not use Unity, NRSDK or any XREAL SDK.
The IronManHUD_Clean Unity project is left untouched.

BUILD AND INSTALL
1. On GitHub, open Actions > Build Jessica DeX APK > Run workflow.
   The workflow must exist on the selected branch (manual dispatch is exposed
   once the workflow exists on the default branch).
   If a Copilot-triggered run shows "action required", approve it in GitHub
   before expecting a build or download. No APK exists until a run succeeds.
2. Open the completed run and download the Jessica-DeX-APK artifact.
3. Unzip it and copy app-debug.apk to your phone (Pixel 10 Pro XL or S23).
4. Open it on the phone and allow installation from that source if prompted.
   This is a debug-signed APK for personal testing, not a Play Store release.
   No Unity license, signing secret or OpenRouter key is needed to build.

Local build: JDK 17, Android SDK platform 35 and build-tools 35.0.0.
From the dex-hud directory run:
  ./gradlew :app:lintDebug :app:assembleDebug
On Windows use gradlew.bat instead. Set ANDROID_HOME to your Android SDK.
Output: app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk

DISPLAYS AND CONTROLS
Pixel 10 Pro XL is a priority test device alongside S23. Connect a supported
external display/glasses, then use Display to select an Android presentation
display. The phone retains the controls while the selected screen shows a
black HUD. Android must expose that display; this app cannot force wired video
output or convert mirroring into an independent screen. No overlay permission,
Accessibility scraping, private API, Unity, NRSDK or XREAL SDK is used.
If only an OS desktop/mirror is available, open Jessica there if supported.
On S23, Samsung DeX and "Use phone as touchpad" are also available. Maximize the
window and use Fullscreen where Android permits it. Escape exits fullscreen.
The window is resizable and has no locked orientation. The control row scrolls
horizontally in small windows. Jessica's dialog supports typed input/keyboard.
Display choices refresh each time the chooser opens. Display add/remove/change
events are monitored while a HUD owner is active; a resolution/density change
recreates the Presentation using that display's resources. Disconnect dismisses
the HUD and clears the selection; reconnect and select it again. Selection is
memory-only, not a permanently saved display ID. There is never an activity and
capture-service Presentation on the same selected display at the same time.

CENTRAL HUD SETTINGS
HUD Settings controls clock/date, battery, reactor decoration, style, Matrix
rain, animation, AI reply panel, digital dots, notifications, music,
Compass / offline navigation, external button shortcuts and HUD content brightness.
Choices are saved and apply to both HUDs.
Notification, music and navigation modules default OFF. Playback capture also
starts OFF and is never automatically restarted or saved as enabled.
The default Minimal style uses a pure-black background with a thin border.
Style also offers Reactor (outline rings, no glow) and Terminal (text only).
Matrix rain adds faint green falling code over black to any style; it is off
by default. Toggle it off for the clearest glasses view. Disable Animate FX to
freeze decorative rings/rain; live playback levels and enabled clock still
update. Battery broadcasts are registered only while an active HUD needs the
battery module; disabled notification/audio modules do not process their data.
Clock and battery are real. The reactor is fictional visual decoration.
No weather, hand tracking or eye tracking is implemented.

HUD DIMMING / GLASSES SETTINGS
HUD Settings > HUD content brightness provides a saved 10–100% slider (default
100%) and Reset HUD brightness to 100%. It applies one content-alpha layer to
ALL rendered HUD accents, clock/battery/assistant/notification text, reactor,
Matrix and audio dots/panel borders on both the phone and the service-owned
external HUD. The background remains opaque pure black at every level. This is
content dimming, not a screen-brightness API; no WRITE_SETTINGS permission or
Android display brightness changes are used. The 10% minimum prevents complete
blackout, but low levels may be difficult to read in bright surroundings.
Phone settings/buttons remain undimmed so brightness can always be reset.
Hardware brightness, electrochromic tint, IPD and 3DoF/head tracking cannot be
set through generic Android Presentation. No fake hardware sliders are provided.
Use the glasses' physical buttons or vendor app where the hardware supports
those functions. Available hardware settings and effects require device testing.

EXTERNAL BUTTON SHORTCUTS — OPT-IN, NOT PROPRIETARY GLASSES CONTROL
Enable External button shortcuts in HUD Settings (OFF by default), close the
dialog and tap the phone HUD to focus it. The external Presentation's HUD is
focusable too. If Android delivers standard unmodified key events to that
focused HUD window: DPAD Left/Right cycles Minimal/Reactor/Terminal, and
Space/Enter/DPAD Center toggles decorative animation. Holding a key does not
repeat the action. Style/motion changes persist and update both HUDs.
Shortcuts only run on the focused HUD view in a focused app window, never in
EditText, dialogs, control buttons or another app's window. A keyboard/remote
must actually send these Android key codes; this is not a global interceptor.
Volume and media keys are not remapped or swallowed by shortcuts: Android and
the current music player retain their ordinary behavior. Music's on-screen
controls remain separately opt-in.
Physical XREAL brightness/volume buttons may operate entirely inside the glasses
and may NOT deliver any Android app key events. No proprietary button mapping
or compatibility is promised. Generic Android Presentation does not expose
glasses head pose/movement sensors; head tracking/movement control is NOT
implemented. No sensor/Accessibility bridge or SDK has been added. Hardware
testing is required on your particular glasses, adapter, phone and OS.

AI REPLY / NOTIFICATION SIDE BOX
The right-side panel (below the visual on narrow portrait windows) wraps the
latest in-HUD API reply. It holds at most 4,000 characters, in memory only;
long replies are visibly ellipsized to fit. Optional API chat shows its bounded
chat separately. HUD Settings > Paste / type an AI reply provides a manual
alternative for external assistants. Use the system Paste menu yourself;
Jessica never automatically reads the clipboard. Manual text is explicitly
labelled, is not a live transcript and is not sent to an AI provider.
Clear AI reply removes that HUD text. API chat history is separate.
HUD reply/notification text and the listener cache also clear when Jessica's
activity stops without approved capture, on actual activity destruction, and
when capture ends/revokes/stops. During an approved capture handoff they remain
memory-only so the service-owned external panel can continue. Explicitly enabled
notification access may receive new eligible items afterward; old cached text
is not republished. Actual activity destruction clears optional API credentials
and chat history too. Configuration changes may preserve an approved capture's
HUD text, but API keys/history are not retained across activity recreation.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATIONS — OPTIONAL, ANDROID 8.1+
Enable Public notifications in HUD Settings, accept the privacy disclosure,
then explicitly grant Jessica notification access using the system settings
button. Android grants broad listener access; Jessica filters its processing
to public, non-ongoing, non-group-summary notifications while enabled. It never
reads private/secret notification bodies, private expanded views, or SMS.
Only package name and bounded title/text are shown (4 recent eligible items;
100 title + 256 body characters each, 1,600-character display bound).
Private/secret notifications and likely OTP/password/authentication/financial
text are excluded. This conservative filter can hide legitimate notifications
and cannot guarantee redaction of all sensitive public text. Normal private
chat/SMS notifications are intentionally not displayed; notification permission
is not a promise to show every message.
Text and the listener cache exist only in memory: no persistence, logging,
export, clipboard copy or insertion into provider prompts. Removal updates the
cache; disable, clear, listener disconnection/access revocation or process exit
clears it. Disabling unbinds the listener; enabling requires the module AND
system access. Revoke access in Android settings whenever desired.

MUSIC CONTROLS — MANUAL PLAYER LAUNCHER
Enable Music controls to reveal its phone control. Open system music app uses
Android's music-app selector; some phones have no default music app, in which
case open your preferred player yourself. Previous / Play-pause / Next dispatch
public Android system media keys. A running player/session is needed and the
player decides whether it responds. No track metadata, notification access,
media-session monitoring or automatic music detection is claimed.

COMPASS / OFFLINE NAVIGATION — INSIDE THE LEFT HUD
Enable Compass / offline navigation in HUD Settings (default OFF). This replaces
the old external map launcher entirely: no geo intent, map app, paid service,
API key, routing provider or generated street turns. The idle left panel shows
North/East/West/etc from Android TYPE_ROTATION_VECTOR when reliable. It reports
PHONE screen-up orientation relative to MAGNETIC north, not glasses/head pose.
Both HUDs remap the sensor axes using the default HANDSET display rotation,
never the glasses/Presentation display rotation. Rotating only an external display
must not change the reported phone heading. Missing/stale/unreliable sensors or
unavailable handset display orientation show a status, never a guessed cardinal.
Hold the phone flatter and calibrate away from magnets if requested. True-north
GPS travel course, when sufficiently fast and accurate, is separately labelled;
it never replaces the magnetic compass or becomes the bearing to the target.

Navigation opens a native in-app editor. Choose Walking or Driving and paste
your own planned, ordered waypoint path, one line per point. These are GPS
following tolerance modes ONLY: they do not optimize roads/paths, determine
walking/driving legality or certify safety. The editor accepts planned
coordinates, NOT address search:
  latitude,longitude[,label]
For example (illustrative points only, not a verified safe street route):
  51.5007,-0.1246,Start
  51.5010,-0.1250,Next
  51.5014,-0.1253,Finish
Up to 100 points / 20,000 characters; labels up to 80 characters. Blank lines
are ignored. Non-finite numbers, latitude outside [-90,90], longitude outside
[-180,180], malformed lines and oversized input produce explicit errors. There
is no geocoding, GPX import, map download or path generation. A single waypoint
is explicitly direct bearing / straight line, NOT a road or walking route.
Two or more points display the supplied path sketch in the LEFT HUD, with the
current point highlighted, label, target bearing (true north), distance estimate
and count after the current waypoint. The sketch safely unwraps the date line;
it is a schematic of supplied coordinates, not street/cartographic data.
The left panel is independent of the assistant/notification switches; switching
both right-side panels off leaves navigation on the left and expands the shifted
graphics area to its right, rather than overlaying compass text on the reactor.
Center reactor/dots and right assistant/notifications remain separate. Narrow
or portrait windows stack the panels; swipe vertically or use the mouse wheel when content
exceeds the window (scroll indicator at the right). Navigation text wraps rather
than clipping. HUD brightness dims these panels together over black.

Start / replace asks for foreground fine/coarse location permission. After
granting permission, tap Start / replace again. Denial leaves compass-only idle
available. Approximate-only permission can start the supplied path but cannot
provide GPS guidance or automatic advance: enable precise permission in Android
app settings if desired. Only the Android GPS provider is requested; no network
location provider. Coordinates and labels are process-memory-only: Jessica never
saves/logs them or sends them to a network, routing provider, AI or chat. Editor
saved state/autofill and screenshots are disabled; keyboard/OS privacy settings
remain outside Jessica's control. Start replaces the previous route. Close keeps
following; Stop / clear erases route and editor. Disable also erases the route.
Unstarted editor text is discarded when closed/backgrounded; process exit loses
all route data. No navigation information enters assistant request history.

Guidance requires a fresh (at most 8 seconds old) precise GPS fix with reported
accuracy <=50 m walking / <=100 m driving; otherwise distance, bearing, course
and arrival guidance are withheld. Automatic advance is intentionally stricter:
non-mock GPS, accuracy <=12 m walking / <=20 m driving, and distance + accuracy
within a 15 m walking / 30 m driving radius, for at least three distinct fixes
over >=3 seconds walking / >=2 seconds driving. It advances at most one point
per fix, then requires a new dwell. Coarse, stale, inaccurate, out-of-order or
duplicate fixes cannot run through the path. This is an estimate, not guaranteed
arrival. Previous/Next work only with a current route and reset the arrival dwell.
There are no automatic street turns, off-route shortcuts or route recalculations.
Supply enough points for your planned path, obey real-world roads/signs, and
never operate controls while driving. This is not a safety/navigation appliance.

GPS stops as soon as the HUD activity is no longer visible, including when a
playback-capture service keeps the external HUD showing. That service has ONLY
mediaProjection foreground type, NOT location. The left panel says GPS paused
in background, with no stale bearing/distance/arrival. Returning resumes only
with the module enabled, an active route and precise permission. Revocation,
disabled GPS and stale fixes pause guidance. Magnetic sensors can remain active
for a selected service-owned HUD; all sensors/location listeners stop when the
module is disabled or there is no active HUD. No background-location permission
or location foreground service is requested or claimed.

Offline parser/geometry/arrival regression checks use the existing JDK, without
adding a test framework or dependencies. From dex-hud:
  mkdir -p app/build/offline-tests
  javac -d app/build/offline-tests app/src/main/java/com/nightmaredesigns/dexhud/OfflineRoute.java app/src/test/java/com/nightmaredesigns/dexhud/OfflineRouteTest.java
  java -cp app/build/offline-tests com.nightmaredesigns.dexhud.OfflineRouteTest
These JVM checks do not simulate Android permissions, lifecycle, sensors,
display rotations or real GPS. Use the device checklist below for those.

JESSICA / GEMINI LIVE — NO GEMINI API KEY
The HUD works offline. Jessica > Open Gemini, or Gemini / Live in the control
row, launches Google's installed Gemini app on your phone without an API key.
Start Live using the Live control inside Gemini. Google sign-in, supported
account/device/language and internet availability are governed by Google.
If Gemini cannot be opened, Jessica shows instructions instead of asking for
a key. Install/enable Gemini or use Phone assistant to invoke your configured
assistant (which may be Bixby/another assistant unless Gemini is the default).
Your phone's assistant gesture/side button is also available.
This is an app handoff, NOT embedded Gemini Live or an on-device AI model.
There is no supported Live-session bridge implemented here: Jessica cannot
automatically start Live, access its microphone, send it HUD/chat text or
display its replies automatically. Gemini controls its own screen/audio/privacy.
Opening another app stops Jessica API polling and app-owned speech. Without
approved playback capture, stopping Jessica's activity closes its Presentation;
the selected display is restored when returning, if still connected.
With capture active, a foreground service owns the selected external HUD and
keeps it visible during the handoff. There is no always-visible PHONE overlay:
when Gemini covers Jessica on the phone, only the selected external HUD remains
visible. An external transcript is still unavailable even if audio is captured.

SAMSUNG AI / BIXBY — OPTIONAL KEY-FREE HANDOFF
Jessica and central HUD Settings both offer Samsung AI / Bixby > setup.
On a Samsung-manufactured phone, a confirmation explains that Bixby must be
enabled and selected as the default assistant in system settings where supported.
Open configured assistant uses the same public Android ACTION_VOICE_COMMAND
handoff as Phone assistant. It invokes whatever assistant your phone is actually
configured to use; it does not guarantee Bixby when Gemini/another app is default
or Bixby is unavailable. Samsung device/account/region requirements still apply.
Galaxy AI features live in supported Samsung apps. Jessica does not embed
Bixby/Galaxy AI, call a Samsung AI API, invent endpoints or undocumented intents,
forward HUD text, scrape replies or receive transcripts. No Samsung API key is
entered in this HUD.
On Pixel/non-Samsung devices the route explicitly shows unavailable device,
with a separate Standard assistant option. It does not claim Samsung apps or
Galaxy AI are installed on Pixel. If Android cannot resolve the generic handoff,
use your configured phone assistant gesture/side button instead.

DIGITAL DOT MATRIX / PLAYBACK LEVELS — ANDROID 10+
Enable Digital dot matrix, select the external display if desired, then choose
Start playback visualization in HUD Settings. Read the disclosure, grant
RECORD_AUDIO runtime permission and approve Android's screen-sharing consent.
On Android 13+, notification permission is also requested so the foreground
notification and its STOP action can appear in the notification drawer.
POST_NOTIFICATIONS is NOT a prerequisite for capture; RECORD_AUDIO and
MediaProjection consent are. If notifications are denied,
use HUD Settings to stop or Android's active-app controls; the ongoing service
may only appear in Android's task manager.
This is AudioPlaybackCapture, NOT microphone capture. Despite Android's audio
permission wording, no microphone AudioRecord source or fallback is used.
The screen-sharing token is used only to authorize playback capture; no virtual
screen/display frames, screenshot, file or network audio stream is created.
Short PCM buffers are reduced to coarse RMS amplitude levels in memory (~10
updates/sec) for dots on the phone and selected glasses/display. Dots are an
amplitude visual, not a frequency analyzer, AI speech detector or transcript.
Any eligible playback can move them, not just an AI voice. Nothing is
transcribed, stored, logged or sent to OpenRouter/other providers.
Android permits only eligible MEDIA, GAME or UNKNOWN playback usage in the
same user profile, subject to each source app's capture policy. Apps can deny
capture; assistant/voice-communication usage may not be eligible. Gemini Live,
other AI apps, DRM media and your device/audio route may produce no capturable
audio. "No capturable audio / silent or blocked" is shown rather than fake
speech or a guaranteed Gemini connection. Silence and policy denial cannot be
distinguished reliably. Test source eligibility on the actual device.
When optional API replies are spoken by Jessica's Android TTS and capture is
off, dots animate on utterance begin/end; the HUD labels this TIMING ONLY,
NOT RMS. The visual is not a measurement of that TTS voice's amplitude.
Capture starts only after user action/consent and uses an unexported
mediaProjection foreground service. Android 14+ ordering is consent >
startForeground(mediaProjection) > getMediaProjection > registerCallback >
audio capture. This audio-only path does not create a virtual display.
STOP in the notification, HUD Settings stop, disabling Digital dot matrix,
Android projection stop/revoke, RECORD_AUDIO revocation, selected-display
disconnect, task removal, or actual activity destruction ends capture and
releases its recorder/projection/Presentation. Configuration changes may keep
the approved service alive. Leaving the activity for Gemini does not by itself
stop capture. Service restart never reuses a saved consent token. Lock-screen
and system/OEM restrictions can also end a projection; return and consent again.

JESSICA / OPENROUTER — OPTIONAL
Jessica > OpenRouter web opens https://openrouter.ai/chat in your browser.
No API key is entered in Jessica for that route; website sign-in, model
availability and free-tier limits still apply. No HUD text or chat is forwarded.
For in-HUD API chat, open Jessica > Optional API chat > Optional API settings
or HUD Settings > Optional authenticated API settings and enter your own
OpenRouter API key on-device. The key is held only in memory, not written to
storage, logs, APKs or GitHub. Restarting or recreating the activity (including
some resize/orientation transitions) requires re-entering the key.
Only the selected model ID is saved. Never commit a key.
Default model: openrouter/free (OpenRouter's free-model router).
You can instead enter a currently available provider/model:free ID from
OpenRouter's model catalog. Paid model IDs are rejected by the app.
API authentication is unchanged. Free models on the API need an account/key;
availability, quotas, provider terms
and account restrictions can change. No unlimited access is promised.

Send submits typed text in optional API chat. API voice in that dialog opens
the installed Android speech recognizer, then sends the recognized question
to OpenRouter (or asks for its key). HUD voice in the main controls is for local
commands; other questions launch Gemini but are NOT forwarded. Ask them again
inside Gemini. Neither voice route is Gemini Live. There is no always-on mic.
Enable spoken replies in Optional API settings to use Android text-to-speech. The chosen
system voice is used; a specific female voice is not guaranteed.
Speech recognition and TTS availability depend on installed engines/languages
and may use provider cloud services. Text input remains available if speech
recognition is missing. No raw audio is sent to OpenRouter by this app.
Local voice commands: "Jessica fullscreen", "Jessica matrix mode",
"Jessica stop polling", "Jessica stop speaking", "Jessica Gemini Live".

POLLING AND PRIVACY
In optional OpenRouter API chat, enter a text prompt, select Start polling
and confirm. The prompt and recent
chat are sent after each reply with a 60-second delay. Polling never reads SMS,
notifications, clipboard, sensors or audio. It cannot supply live information
unless you type it in. Stop polling cancels future sends, not a request already
submitted. Errors stop polling rather than repeatedly retrying.
Leaving the app stops polling, cancels network work and stops app-owned speech;
returning does not restart polling. Only explicitly enabled notification
access and an explicitly approved playback-capture service can continue;
neither supplies any data to API polling. No autonomous actions.
OpenRouter and its model providers receive your prompts and recent chat.
Chat is bounded and held only in memory; do not submit sensitive information.
AI output is untrusted and may be inaccurate; it cannot execute app commands.

DISPLAY LIMITATIONS
This is a conventional fullscreen Android display app, not spatially anchored
AR. Black reduces emitted light but does not hide the real world or provide
camera passthrough. System/window chrome depends on the phone/OS desktop mode.
Priority devices: Pixel 10 Pro XL and S23 (including Samsung DeX). Physical
XREAL 1S, source capture eligibility and display compatibility must be tested
on your setup; this repository cannot certify hardware behavior.
Pixel desktop/external-display behavior is Android/OEM support, not DeX.
This APK is phone-only. The separate desktop-hud app provides Windows PC
support and a HUD-only secondary-display window; see desktop-hud/SETUP.txt.

DEVICE VERIFICATION CHECKLIST (NOT AUTOMATED HARDWARE TEST RESULTS)
On Pixel 10 Pro XL and S23:
1. Check default black HUD; notifications/music/navigation/capture start off.
   Toggle each module, style and Matrix; relaunch and check module persistence.
   Resize/rotate and check readable wrapped reply panels and system insets.
2. Connect/select glasses; change display resolution/scale if the OS permits;
   unplug/reconnect; ensure no stale/duplicate external window. Check mirroring
   fallback separately when Android exposes no Presentation display.
3. Start capture; test record permission denial, projection consent cancellation,
   Android 13 notification denial, source-policy-blocked playback and silence.
   Then test permitted MEDIA playback. Only real levels should light the dots.
4. Launch Gemini and start Live there. Verify external HUD survives ONLY during
   approved capture. Do not expect capturable Gemini voice or Gemini reply text.
   Try notification STOP, system projection stop, disable dots, audio permission
   revoke, unplug selected display and task swipe-away; ensure capture stops.
5. Enable notifications and grant access. Compare explicitly public content
   with private/secret/OTP content; check filtering, 4-item bound, removal and
   immediate module-disable clearing. Revoke access while HUD is visible and
   while Gemini is open; verify all notification text clears.
6. Enable music, open a player and check media-key actions; no player should
   produce no fictional metadata. Enable Compass / offline navigation on both
   Pixel and S23: test idle cardinal against phone orientation, all four phone
   and external display rotations, magnets/poor calibration and unavailable
   sensors. Phone and external HUD must agree; rotate only the external display
   and verify the phone heading does not change. No target bearing should
   masquerade as magnetic heading.
   Paste walking/driving paths; reject NaN/Infinity/out-of-range/malformed input,
   >100 points and >20k characters with explicit errors. Check single-point
   direct-bearing wording, multi-point sketch, wrapped labels and portrait scroll.
   Switch assistant and notifications independently on/off: navigation must stay
   left, graphics must remain separate, and disabling both right panels should
   expand graphics without moving/covering navigation. Test duplicate points and
   paths crossing +/-180 longitude; no unsafe drawing or street map claims.
   Deny permission, allow approximate, then allow precise: no coarse auto-advance.
   Test Previous/Next/Stop, module disable, GPS disable/stale fixes, revoke while
   visible, and background/return with AND without playback capture. Background
   service HUD must say paused with no stale bearing/course/arrival. Check
   brightness, no map launcher, no route persistence/network/chat/log output.
   Actual GPS arrival thresholds, course and magnetic calibration need outdoor
   device testing; mock fixes must never automatically advance.
7. Confirm OpenRouter web works without a key entered in Jessica. Optional API
   still requires authentication. Check an API reply wraps in the side box,
   manual paste is labelled, and spoken API replies use timing-only dots when
   playback capture is off. Notification text must never enter an API request.
8. With shortcuts disabled, verify ordinary keyboard/control behavior. Enable
   shortcuts, focus the phone/external HUD and test delivered DPAD/Space/Enter
   events once per press. Verify text inputs/dialogs/buttons are unaffected and
   volume/media keys are not hijacked. Test any glasses buttons physically;
   absent app events or unavailable head pose must not imply hardware support.
9. Set HUD brightness to 10%, 50% and 100% with each style, both panels and audio
   dots visible. Verify all HUD content dims together and the background stays
   black on phone/glasses, including during service-owned Gemini handoff. Restart
   and check persistence; Reset must restore 100%. Controls must remain readable.
   No hardware brightness/tint/IPD/head-tracking change should be claimed.
10. On S23, open Samsung AI / Bixby in Jessica and HUD Settings and read/confirm
    setup. Check that the configured assistant is invoked, including when it is
    not Bixby. On Pixel 10 Pro XL, verify unavailable-device wording and the
    separately labelled Standard assistant option. No Samsung transcript/API
    integration should be implied.
