JESSICA HUD - WINDOWS PC EDITION

BUILD AND LAUNCH
GitHub Actions: run the workflow named "Build Jessica DeX APK".
The Windows packaging and Android APK jobs run independently.
Download Jessica-Windows-x64 from the workflow run's Artifacts section if
the Windows job succeeds, even if Android fails. Jessica-DeX-APK is available
separately only if the Android job succeeds.
Extract Jessica-Windows-x64 and launch JessicaHUD.exe from its portable
folder. Jessica-DeX-APK is the separate Android phone build, not a PC app.

Requires Node.js 22.12+ and npm. From desktop-hud:
  npm ci
  npm start
  npm run package:win

The Windows x64 portable app is produced in:
  dist/JessicaHUD-win32-x64/JessicaHUD.exe
Copy the ENTIRE JessicaHUD-win32-x64 folder to a Windows PC, then launch
JessicaHUD.exe. Keep resources and the other runtime files alongside it.
This is a portable application folder, not a single-file installer.
The app's MIT license notice is included at resources/LICENSE.
The build is unsigned; Windows SmartScreen may show an unknown-publisher warning.
Only run builds from a source you trust. The package requires Windows 10 or later.
Packaging Windows on Linux downloads the official Electron Windows runtime.
Development npm start also works on Electron-supported Linux and macOS.
Linux development needs a display and correctly configured Chromium sandbox;
if its sandbox helper permissions are invalid, fix those permissions rather
than launching with --no-sandbox. Windows does not use that Linux helper.
Never disable Electron sandboxing or web security in a distributed build.

XREAL / HUD-ONLY SECOND SCREEN
Connect your glasses using a PC video-output connection supported by the
glasses (USB-C DisplayPort or the appropriate adapter). Windows must detect
them as a monitor. Press Win+P and choose Extend, NOT Duplicate.
In Windows Settings > System > Display, keep the PC monitor as your main
display and use Identify to distinguish the glasses from other monitors.
Jessica cannot enable video output or change Windows display mode for you.

In Jessica's Second-screen HUD card, select the glasses' secondary display
by its label/ID and resolution, then choose Show HUD. The app does not guess
which monitor is XREAL and does not open the glasses window automatically.
The selected screen receives only a borderless, full-screen black HUD with
optional reactor graphics, clock, output-reactive dot matrix, provider and
processing/voice status. Choose modules in the central Settings tab.
Chat, settings and controls stay on the Windows main display; the control
window is kept within that display's work area. No API key is needed
to show the HUD. Chat/API credentials remain optional, separate features.
By default, the HUD receives only module switches, status and numeric output
level. Its assistant side box is OFF by default. Explicitly enable that module
to share up to 1,200 characters of NEW assistant output: streamed chat replies
or Gemini OUTPUT transcription. User prompts, input transcription, saved
history, keys and audio buffers are never forwarded to the HUD. Assistant
replies can still repeat sensitive information from a prompt: enable this
only when safe to display them. Disabling clears the text and in-memory
sharing buffers immediately; enabling does not replay earlier replies.
New chat, provider/model changes, stopping a request and stopping Live clear
shared output. Old/canceled requests cannot repopulate it. Output sharing
is not saved or exported, and the HUD cannot start provider calls.
Navigation is a separate, OFF-by-default left panel. Enabling it shows an
idle compass with fixed N/E/S/W references, NOT a measured heading. Its
route/position/heading sharing checkbox is separately OFF each session:
explicit sharing sends only bounded derived navigation cues, a target label
and a normalized coordinate-derived schematic to the selected HUD. Raw
coordinates and route input text are never sent to that window. The assistant
remains on the right; each independently enabled panel reserves its side
and shifts reactor/dots to the center of the remaining area. With sharing off, the
glasses keep COMPASS / HEADING UNAVAILABLE even if the PC has a manual route.

Use Close HUD or press Escape while the PC controls are focused to exit.
Opening the HUD does not take keyboard focus from the PC. The existing
Live microphone policy is unchanged: losing PC-window focus stops Live.
Unplugging the selected screen, making it primary, or unsafe window
placement closes the HUD instead of relocating it onto the PC.
Display changes refresh the selector; choose a secondary screen again
after reconnecting. Display choices are not saved across application runs.
Closing Jessica's PC window also closes the HUD. Resolution/scale changes
update its bounds or close it safely if placement cannot be maintained.
Settings offers opt-in keyboard / standard HID controls, OFF by default:
F8 pauses/resumes reactor, waveform and dot-matrix visual effects only
(audio is not paused); F9 shows/closes the explicitly selected HUD display.
These shortcuts operate only while the PC app is focused, not in input
fields, during dialogs, with modifiers, or on key-repeat. No global keyboard
hook is installed, and the glasses HUD remains non-focusable/display-only.
Glasses buttons work only if the hardware/driver exposes standard keyboard
events mapped to F8/F9. Hardware brightness controls often are not exposed
that way; Jessica cannot intercept them or change glasses brightness.
Head movement/tracking is not available through a generic Electron monitor.
It requires a device-specific sensor SDK, which this app does not integrate.
No movement-based interaction or simulated head tracking is provided.
Shortcut opt-in persists; visual pause is session-only. Disabling shortcuts
resumes effects. Escape/Close HUD remain available regardless of opt-in.
The Settings HUD brightness slider provides real SOFTWARE dimming from
10% to 100%, applied when released and saved across app restarts. It adjusts
opacity of the entire glasses content layer (clock, text, dots, reactor,
assistant/navigation panels and footer) over a pure-black background. It does not dim
the PC controls or change monitor backlight/hardware brightness. Reset HUD
brightness restores this app's content opacity to the default 100% only.
Older preferences without brightness settings migrate to 100%.
Generic HDMI/DisplayPort display output does not control glasses hardware
brightness, electrochromic tint, IPD, or head/movement sensor settings.
Use the appropriate XREAL device buttons/vendor controls for supported
hardware settings. This is not an "all glasses hardware settings" menu,
and no device sensor SDK or simulated movement control is included.
If no secondary display appears, check Extend mode, cable and video support.
This is a conventional monitor view, not spatial AR or head tracking.
Physical Windows/XREAL dual-display testing is still required on your setup.

CHAT UPLINK
Open Settings > Chat Uplink. Select OpenRouter, Groq or Cerebras. Enter the matching API key
and press Set key. Keys exist only in application memory and are forgotten
when the application closes. They are not saved, exported or printed.
Use Forget this provider key to remove a key before closing.

Browse live model catalog fetches directly from the selected provider.
OpenRouter shows only models whose prompt AND completion prices are zero
and whose IDs end in :free, plus openrouter/free. The free router selects
an eligible free model. Availability, quotas and upstream providers change.
Only free model IDs can be requested through this app's OpenRouter path.
Groq and Cerebras require their own account/API key. Their free tiers are
account-dependent and limited, not an assurance that all usage is free.
Check provider account plans, usage quotas and billing before sending.
An exact Groq/Cerebras model ID can be entered when the catalog is unavailable.
No API credential or paid account is bundled.
The "Open OpenRouter website" button instead opens https://openrouter.ai/chat
in your normal browser, without entering an API key into this app. Website
chat has its own login, model and usage limits and is not linked to the HUD.
Free-model API chat inside Jessica still requires an authenticated API key.

Text responses stream live. Stop cancels a request; Retry resends the failed
turn, excluding the incomplete assistant response. Retrying can consume quota.
Changing provider explicitly asks for confirmation and clears current context.
No previous chat is silently forwarded to another provider.
Opening saved history from a different provider also asks for confirmation.
Messages are sent directly to the selected provider, not a Jessica server.
Treat your conversation content as data shared with that provider.

LOCAL HISTORY
Saving is OFF by default. Enable it in Settings, then press Save locally.
At most 20 chats are retained, each at most 60 turns/100,000 characters.
Active chat history is bounded; start a new chat when its limit is reached.
Archive supports local search, opening and deletion. Disabling local saving
erases the app's saved archive. Export uses an explicit system save dialog
to write plain text to your chosen location. Exported files are not erased
by deleting an archive entry. Live audio/transcripts are not archived.
Only preferences and opted-in saved chat text are persisted in
Electron's userData/preferences.json (normally under Windows %APPDATA%).
These files are NOT encrypted. Do not save sensitive chat on shared PCs.

GEMINI LIVE VOICE
Enter a Google Gemini API key and press Set key in Live Voice.
Default model ID: gemini-3.8-live. It is editable because account/region/model
availability varies. Use a Live AUDIO-capable model supported by your account;
if this default is unavailable, use the model ID shown by Google's documentation.
Gemini Live needs an eligible Google account/API key, model access and may
require billing. Free access is not guaranteed. Check Google's current pricing.
Click Start live and explicitly consent to microphone use and transmission.
The PC needs a working microphone, speaker/headphones and system microphone
permission. No audio is captured on launch; there is no background listener.
Audio is PCM16 mono at 16 kHz input and 24 kHz output over the official Google
Live WebSocket endpoint. Input/output transcription appears when provided by
the model. Use headphones to prevent acoustic feedback.
Stop Live, window focus loss, minimization, disconnect or exit stops capture.
Sessions have a 15-minute safety limit; manually restart to continue.
Provider keys remain in memory; Live never reuses a chat-provider key.
The official socket authenticates using the Gemini key in its connection URL;
the app never logs that URL. Avoid sharing network diagnostic captures.
This app has no reconnect/autoresume: a fresh explicit start is required.
The digital dot matrix uses an analyser on actual outgoing PCM playback,
not microphone input or queued-but-unplayed chunks. It becomes idle during
silence, interruption or stop. With "Read completed chat replies aloud",
OpenRouter/Groq/Cerebras text can use a local system speech voice; this is
OFF by default and depends on voices available on your system. For that
path, the dots indicate speech activity from utterance events, NOT measured
amplitude. Stop reading, new chat, a new request, provider/model changes,
starting Live, disabling reading and exit cancel local speech.
No audio or response link to an installed phone Gemini app, browser chat,
or any other desktop AI app is provided. Gemini Live here is the API
integration, not a hook into the phone app.
Samsung Galaxy AI/Bixby features are available on supported Samsung phones,
subject to device, region, account and feature availability. Use the phone's
assistant or supported phone controls; this Electron PC app does not embed
Galaxy AI/Bixby, provide a Samsung assistant API or PC launcher, or bridge
the phone assistant's audio/transcripts into this HUD.

CENTRAL SETTINGS / OPTIONAL PC TOOLS
Module choices and optional local speech are validated and persisted.
Existing preferences from older desktop builds retain provider, model,
Live model and history choices; new privacy-sensitive modules start OFF.
Clock, reactor and dots start ON and can be individually hidden both on
the PC preview and the black glasses HUD. Reduced-motion settings are honored.
The assistant side box sits alongside local message notices; it reports
locally refreshed assistant output, not a notification or phone inbox.

Manual notes are session-only, at most 2,000 characters, and remain on the
PC. They are not sent to an AI, displayed on glasses, saved or exported.
Disabling the notes module clears them.

Local music uses an explicit file chooser and renderer-only HTML audio
playback. Import up to 50 audio files, at most 100 MiB each / 500 MiB total.
Import does not autoplay. Select tracks; use Play/Pause, Previous/Next and
Volume. During playback, completed tracks advance until the playlist ends.
Codec support depends on Electron; MP3/WAV/OGG are good starting choices.
Playback volume feeds a real output analyser; only its numeric level reaches
the glasses. No file paths, contents or track names go to the main process
or HUD. Playlist object URLs are revoked on replacement, disabling and exit.
Playlists and volume are not persisted. This player does not control other
music applications or impersonate OS media keys. Music does not record audio
and may continue when PC controls lose focus; the Live microphone still stops.

OFFLINE NAVIGATION / MANUAL COMPASS
Enable Offline navigation in Settings. The PC preview gets a left panel;
all navigation controls remain in Settings, not on glasses or in chat.
Select Walking or Driving. This changes only the manual-coordinate proximity
reference (10 meters Walking / 25 meters Driving): neither mode calculates
street optimization, route legality, transport restrictions, traffic or time.
Within/Outside reference compares supplied coordinates only, not verified
physical arrival. It never advances a target or substitutes for live sensors.
No maps/routing provider, subscription, API key, browser launch, network
request, geocoding or externally generated route is used for navigation.

Supply ordered waypoints, one decimal lat,lon[,label] line per point.
Example:
  51.5007,-0.1246,First waypoint
  51.5014,-0.1419,Second waypoint
Click Load supplied route. Limits: 1-100 nonblank lines, 20,000 input
characters, latitude -90 to 90 and longitude -180 to 180, finite decimal
values only (no hexadecimal, exponent notation, Infinity or NaN). Labels
are optional, at most 80 characters, with no commas or control characters.
There is no route-file importer. Successful loading clears the input box;
the main process retains the validated route only in session memory.
Invalid input leaves the previous route unchanged.

Enter your MANUAL current latitude/longitude and optionally a MANUAL heading
(0 to less than 360 degrees clockwise from north), then Set manual position.
Set heading only also works without a position or route. Blank heading means
HEADING UNAVAILABLE. MANUAL is always identified: this is not live GPS, a
real compass sensor, a live location feed or simulated tracking.
No device location permission is requested. Electron geolocation can depend
on an external location provider/API key and is not used here. Generic PC
video displays do not supply Android GPS/magnetometer sensor capabilities.
There is no Android sensor bridge or sensor SDK. Without explicitly supplied
heading, idle compass heading is unavailable; cardinal references are fixed.

The current target shows its supplied label, cardinal bearing, straight-line
great-circle distance from your manual position and remaining point count
(including the current target). Without position, bearing/distance are
unavailable. Coincident/ambiguous targets may have no meaningful bearing.
The north-up sketch connects your supplied points with straight schematic
lines, not roads. Amber dot: selected target; white square: manual position.
It is not a calibrated map, street route or turn-by-turn road instruction.
One waypoint is explicitly DIRECT BEARING / NO STREET ROUTE. Longer routes
are SUPPLIED WAYPOINTS / NO STREET ROUTE. Bearings can cross unsafe terrain,
private land or obstacles. Check a real map and surroundings; do not interact
while driving. No safety, accessibility or navigability guarantee is made.

Previous/Next selects the target manually; updating position NEVER advances
the route, including when near a waypoint. No arrival detection or rerouting.
Clear route retains manual position/heading; Clear position / heading retains
the route. Clear all resets route, position, heading, mode and HUD sharing.
Disable Navigation, reload/lose the PC renderer or exit to clear all session
navigation data. Module visibility persists, but route data, manual coordinates,
heading, travel mode and display-sharing consent are never persisted.
Navigation does not enter AI requests, chat history, input transcripts,
assistant output or exports. Only the separately opted-in HUD snapshot exposes
derived cues/sketches; that display cannot edit navigation or launch requests.

The only external website launcher is fixed HTTPS OpenRouter chat, through
validated, focused-PC IPC. Navigation cannot accept URLs, shell commands,
automatic AI tools, arbitrary server requests or background location capture.

SCOPE AND LIMITS
The message side panel shows conversations and LOCAL application notices.
It is not a Windows OS notification listener, SMS listener or phone mirror.
A PC cannot mirror your phone notifications through this app.
No camera capture, spatial AR, floating real-world overlays or phone-device
integration is implemented. PC controls and an optional display-only HUD
are conventional desktop windows, not spatially tracked overlays.
No background microphone, arbitrary remote URLs, in-HUD website popups,
plugins or automatic tool execution are allowed. External browser launch is
limited to the explicit, allowlisted OpenRouter Settings button described above.
Network requests have timeouts and bounded responses/audio queues.
Provider errors are sanitized: check your account console for account details.
Never paste your API key into a chat message or transcript.

VALIDATION
  node --check main.js
  node --check preload.js
  node --check renderer.js
  node --check mic-worklet.js
  node --check hud-preload.js
  node --check hud.js
  node --check dot-matrix.js
  node --check navigation.js
  node --check navigation-view.js
  npm audit
  npm run package:win
Live authenticated provider calls require your own accounts and are not
performed during build. Packaging output is ignored by Git.
Manual Windows dual-display testing is required: verify Extend mode,
non-primary selection, black fullscreen placement, Show/Close and Escape,
unplug/replug, primary-display changes, resolution/scaling/layout changes,
PC close and microphone focus-loss privacy. No Linux sandbox bypass is used.
Also verify module persistence/migration; side-box opt-in/off clearing;
no replay of archive/user/input transcription; canceled-request/provider
reset races; PCM/silence/interruption dot levels; available system voices;
local music codecs, playlist replacement/limits, volume and URL cleanup;
and the OpenRouter browser launch without arbitrary URL or command execution.
Verify navigation disabled/default, idle heading unavailable, manual cardinal
headings, coordinate/label/count/input limits, dateline/coincident bearings,
single-point disclosure, mode labels, schematic/current target display,
manual-only Previous/Next, no automatic advance, per-session HUD sharing,
no navigation in AI/chat/history/exports, and disable/reload/exit clearing.
For optional HID/keyboard controls verify F8/F9 only with focused PC controls,
no interception in text inputs or native/browser dialogs, no repeats/modifiers,
no effect while another app has focus, and no HUD focus-steal on F9 opening.
Real glasses-button support requires hardware/driver keyboard-event testing.
Verify persisted 10%/100% content dimming includes text/clock/dots/assistant
panel while the background stays black and PC controls remain unchanged.
Verify reset and reject out-of-range, fractional or nonnumeric brightness.
